S3
=====

Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3), provides developers and IT teams with secure, durable, highly-scalable object storage.
Amazon S3 is easy to use, with a simple web service interface to store and retrieve any amount of data from anywhere on the web.

Gordon allow you to integrate your lambdas with S3 using their notification service.
The idea is simple, every time an object get's created/deleted, S3, will trigger a notification which you can route to three different services:

  * **Lambda**: Your code will be triggered each time something happens. *(1 S3 event = 1 lambda executed)*
  * **SQS**: S3 will create a message in a SQS queue every time something happens. Right now there is no any api for Lambdas to consume messages from a sqs queue, but because you need to define all bucket notification in the same place, we need to support this. In the future AWS will might support consuming SQS messages using lambda. *(1 S3 event = 1 message in a queue)*
  * **SNS**: S3 will send a message to a SNS Topic. You can subscribe as many lambdas as you want to this topic and process those messages individually *(1 S3 event = N lambdas executed)*

  .. note::

    As always, is not gordon's business to create those ``sqs`` or ``sns`` resources. You should create them in advance. You can read Why in the :doc:`../faq`

Limitations
------------

This integration, has some limitations because how the AWS API is designed:
 * You must define all notifications for a bucket within the same integration.
 * Gordon will refuse to configure notifications in bucket if it already has some other notifications configured manually (this is a safe measure).


Anatomy of the integration
----------------------------------

 .. code-block:: yaml

   s3:

     { INTEGRATION_NAME }:
       bucket: { BUCKET_NAME }
       notifications:

         - id: { NOTFICATION_ID  }
           { DESTINATION_TYPE }: { DESTINATION }

           events:
             - { EVENT_NAME }
             - ...

           key_filters: (optional)
             - prefix: PREFIX
             - suffix: SUFFIX


Destinations
-------------

Valid destinations types are:
 * ``lambda``
 * ``queue``
 * ``topic``


Destination: ``lambda``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can reference lambdas by name

.. code-block:: yaml

  lambda: app.s3consumer

Or by their full ``arn``:

.. code-block:: yaml

  lambda: arn:aws:lambda:eu-west-1:123456789:function:function-name


Destination: ``queue``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can reference queues by name if they are in the same account than the bucket

.. code-block:: yaml

  queue: my-queue-name

If your queue is on a different account you can use the dictionary format:

.. code-block:: yaml

  queue:
    name: my-queue-name
    acount_id: 123456789


Destination: ``topic``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can reference topics by name if they are in the same account than the bucket

.. code-block:: yaml

  topic: my-topic-name

If your topic is on a different account you can use the dictionary format:

.. code-block:: yaml

  topic:
    name: my-topic-name
    acount_id: 123456789

Events
--------

It is mandatory you provide a list of events where your notification will be subscribed. The list of available events is the following:

  * ``s3:ObjectCreated:*``
   * ``s3:ObjectCreated:Put``
   * ``s3:ObjectCreated:Post``
   * ``s3:ObjectCreated:Copy``
   * ``s3:ObjectCreated:CompleteMultipartUpload``
  * ``s3:ObjectRemoved:*``
   * ``s3:ObjectRemoved:Delete``
   * ``s3:ObjectRemoved:DeleteMarkerCreated``
  * ``s3:ReducedRedundancyLostObject``

  .. note::

      Remember that you can't overlap events between notifications. So, if you for example subscribe a lambda to ``s3:ObjectCreated:*``, you'll not
      be able to subscribe any other notification to: ``s3:ObjectCreated:Put``, ``s3:ObjectCreated:Post``, etc...


Filters
--------

Filters are optional to all notifications. The current AWS API only allows you to filter events by the key's ``prefix`` and ``suffix``. One notification can't define
more than one of each (``prefix`` and ``suffix``) and  filters in a bucket can't overlap one to each other.


Full Example
----------------------------------

.. code-block:: yaml

  s3:
    my_s3_integration:
      bucket: my_bucket_name
      notifications:

        - id: lambda_on_create_cat
          lambda: app.s3consumer
          events:
            - s3:ObjectCreated:*
          key_filters:
            - prefix: cat_
            - suffix: .png

        - id: queue_on_remove_dog
          queue: removed_dogs_queue
          events:
            - s3:ObjectRemoved:*
          key_filters:
            - prefix: dog_

        - id: topic_on_redundacy_lost
          topic: redundacy_lost_topic
          events:
            - s3:ReducedRedundancyLostObject:*
